Welcome to the next section of our course building and testing AI agents, rags and chatbots using link
chain with Olama and local LMS.
So in this section we are going to talk about how we can start working with the link chain itself.
So we are going to start doing the complete hands on from this particular section.
So for doing that I'm going to flip to my Visual Studio Code.
And I'm going to show you how we can get started with the link chain itself.
So as you can see, I have already created some folders for Long Chain.
And I have uh, I have navigated to that particular folder structure.
So I'm going to open Visual Studio Code over here, and I'm going to start working from there on.
But before I actually start working with this particular operation, I also need to set up the virtual
environment for my Python, because we are going to be working with Python.
So we need to have a virtual environment in place.
So in order to create the virtual environment, all you have to do it is first of all, you need to
make sure that the python is already installed in your machine.
As I told you that it's a prerequisite you need to have.
So make sure that you have Python installed in your machine, and once the Python is available, Then
I'm going to start doing following series of operations.
So I'm going to open the terminal which is inbuilt within the Visual Studio Code using Control shift
P or Command shift P if you're using Mac operating system.
And then I'm going to do this, I'm going to do Python 3.12 hyphen m v environment, which is the visual
environment.
I'm going to name it as my env 312.
That is the virtual environment that I have got, and I need to activate this virtual environment using
the source.
My env 312 slash bin slash activate.
So you see that the moment I do it, it is going to navigate to this particular virtual environment
over here.
And then things will be uh downloaded and set up everything from here onwards.
That is the first thing that we need to do.
And once you have this, we can just close this terminal because we are going to be using the Jupyter
notebook for all our operation.
So the Jupyter notebook that I'm talking about is something that I have already installed as a plugin
within my extension.
So if you don't really have it, make sure that you install the, uh, Jupyter notebooks from the extension
over here.
I have already installed that within my Visual Studio code.
That's the reason why I can create a notebook once the installation is done.
So all I have to do it is once the installation is done for the Jupyter notebook, just do a command
shift P, and then you can, um, create this new Jupyter notebook.
And that is going to be bringing up this Jupyter notebook for you.
And once I do control s to save, uh, and I'm going to, uh, save it in a new folder, I'm going to
call this as probably section one, um, which is going to be uh, basics.
I'm going to hit create.
That's going to create a folder.
And I'm going to say, uh, basics or maybe lang chain, uh, basics.
There we go.
That's the notebook that I have created over here.
And once the notebook is created, we're pretty good to go, and we can start working with, uh, from
here on.
So the first thing I'm going to do with this notebook is I'm going to do the installation part.
So I'm going to go hit this markdown over here.
And I'm going to say installation of required, uh dependencies okay.
There.
And then I'm going to select this kernel.
So this kernel is very very important because the moment you select the kernel it's going to give you
an option to select the Python environment or the existing Jupyter server.
I'm going to choose the my env 312 that I just created this one.
And it's also recommended.
As you can see I'm going to choose that.
That is the uh, that is the kernel that I have got over here.
And now I need to start writing or maybe running the dependencies that I need for the installation part.
So for doing that, I'm going to hit this code block again and I'm going to do this pip.
So I'm going to put a bank symbol so that it will run the particular command if it is not installed.
And then I'm going to install this Lang chain.
Right.
And now if I try running this it will also install an ancillary package within my within my libraries
over here.
You see, at the moment I only have pip, which is the python, uh, installation package for that and
then the distro.
And now if I try to run this, um, over here.
Sorry.
This one, you see that it's going to install an, uh, ipykernel package from this particular Jupyter
notebook, which is required for the execution of all the code that we are going to be doing from here
on from this notebook.
And you see that now all of these are installed, and also now it's installing the Lang chain for me,
uh, within my, uh, virtual environment.
So moving forward, the virtual environment is more than enough for me to play around for everything
so that the installation is done.
There is a tick mark there.
So that's pretty cool.
And I also wanted the, uh, Allama, because we are going to be working with Allama for our local large
language model for all the operation.
So I need to have the, uh, long chain olama support as well.
This is nothing but the, uh, integration as I was talking about.
So if you just go to the long chain website over here and go to the long chain and go to the documentation
of the long chain, and as I told you, there is this, uh, olama, uh, support for the long chain.
So if I just say olama over here, uh, and if I hit enter, you see that this is going to be olama,
uh, which is mainly used for running the large language model from your local machine.
But if you're going to be using, let's say, OpenAI or probably hugging face or even maybe Cloud Anthropic,
so you can choose that specific, uh, integration as well, or the package as well for your operation.
So you can see that for the long chain anthropic, you can use the, uh, the LM anthropic uh, class
for performing the operation.
And similarly for the Appsec also, they have got the chat models of the chat model chat option available.
And similarly for the olama that we are going to be using, we are going to be using that particular
class, which is this one, right?
So you can see that all of these are going to be coming up for you over here.
And then we are going to be start working with that particular package.
So once again for working with the Olama you need to install this Lang chain or Lama package within
your machine.
So I'm going to say pip install this particular.
Is it that this is the command that we have to run install lang chain or Lama.
So I'm going to say pip install lang chain and uh or lama.
And I also need to have a dot env which is mainly used for reading the env file from our machine which
is from here.
So I'm going to create an env file uh, which is mainly used for uh reading the API keys from the OpenAI
or even from the Lamb-smith, which we are going to be configuring later.
Point of time.
So that is something that I'm going to be doing moving forward by having reading from the dot env file,
which is pretty much like how you do from other languages as well, even from JavaScript, the same
thing.
I'm going to do it over here as well.
And for that I need to have uh, dot env package and that one I need to install it as well.
So I'm going to say pip install uh and Python.
Dot env.
And I'm going to hit run.
So now this is going to install both the lang chain olama and the python dot env package for me.
And if you just go to the my env 312 libraries, you will see all the packages required like lang chain
core lang chain olama and also the python dot env uh, over here for you.
So once the installation is done, we are pretty good to go and then we can start writing the code starting
our next lecture.